
smbclient - this tool is used to check shared between users. shares can expose sensitive data that isn't meant to be shown. 

impacket - this tool is used a lot for AD enumeration/exploitation. you can use impacket-getTGT to generate a Kerberos ticket to gain access to user
accounts within AD to enumerate and further privs. 

bloodhound - use this tool to explore the current AD, useful for AD enumeration.

nmap - simple but reliable port scanner, can also detect services in use and their current versions. 

burpsuite - this tool is used to intercept web traffic so that it can be viewed/altered. 

wireshark - Wireshark is a free, open-source network protocol analyzer used to capture and inspect network traffic in real-time, allowing professionals to troubleshoot network issues, diagnose security problems, 
and understand network communications at the packet level.

john the ripper - John the Ripper (JtR) is a free and open-source password-cracking tool used for security auditing and password recovery

hashcat - Hashcat is a file craker, used to decrypt file hashes. 

nikto - web server vulnerability scanner that performs comprehensive tests to identify security issues like outdated software, dangerous files,
insecure configurations, and default settings

mimikatz - Mimikatz is a post-exploitation tool requiring administrative access to a system. It targets the LSASS process, 
which manages user authentication and stores credentials for logged-in users

hydra - a reverse engineering tool, can help understand malware and or any malicious code / files etc. 

rpcclient - command-line tool to interact with Windows RPC/SMB services, heavily used in enumeration and AD recon.

certipy-ad - Certipy-ad is an offensive and defensive toolkit for enumerating and 
exploiting misconfigurations in Active Directory Certificate Services (AD CS).

impacet-dacledit - modifies Active Directory object permissions. 

Splunk - It acts as a central hub for collecting, indexing, and processing large volumes of structured, 
semi-structured, and unstructured data in real-time, providing dashboards, reports, 
and alerts to help users quickly detect issues, 
understand events, and respond to threats

used mainly in defensive security - it is a kind of Software

ELK Stack - a suite of three open-source tools—Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana—that work together 
to provide a powerful platform for data collection, 
analysis, and visualization

Dive deeper into python libs that partake in Exploit/Malware developkment

Pwntools
Scapy - basically used to deal with packets/ Network-based exploits
Angr - binary analysis, finds vulns etc
Barf - binary analysis & reverse engineering - is x86 and ARM archictecure
compatible.
Capstone - lightweight multi-platform, multi-architecture disassembly framework

httpx-tools / httpx - fast web recon tool. 

nuclei - web vuln scanner. 

nikto - web server vulnerability scanner

ffuf - a fast web fuzzer written in Go, used for discovering directories, files, 
and vulnerabilities in web applications.

amass -  is an open-source tool used for network mapping and asset discovery, 
primarily by information security professionals. It helps identify subdomains, 
perform DNS enumeration, and visualize relationships between discovered assets to assess potential vulnerabilities

